# Internet Shutdowns Tracker
(Add the build status and twitter and github icon)
An interactive map of India showing instances of Internet shutdowns by state governments.


History of IST
 How old is the project, how it started and all.

ABOUT IST
features and what can you do
 Report shutdown via our hotline.
 How to Report the Shutdown
 Check if your website is reachable using our OONI probe integration

How To setup the project locally
 Fork the project or download the zip.
 cd project and start the project local server using `npm start`.
 The project is available at `localhost:3000`.

CONTRIBUTION
How can you contribute? Read our contribution guidelines(optional) and documentation to know more about the project structure and development guide.
 Advocacy
 Reporting Shutdown 
 Updating the IST and bug fixes

FAQ
 What is internet shutdown?
 WHy do they happen and why do we track them?
 Read more at our FAQ page.

LICENSE


Documentation 
 Project structure
 Different components
 Tech stack and dependencies

Contribution guidelines
 Coding style guide
 The preferred method to contribute, create a fork, pr and get it merged.
 Advocate
 Report shutdowns

### Why do we need to track Internet Shutdowns?
To document all the internet shutdowns imposed by the government and realize the fact that internet, which is a popular medium to express, is controlled by government.

To know more about internet shutdowns, check out our FAQ page [here](https://internetshutdowns.in/about).

### To setup the project locally:
The project uses stack including Node, Bower, Express and MongoDB. Follow the steps to setup the project locally:
* Install the nodejs and git
* Install node dependencies using `npm install` which will install bower dependencies itself.
* To run the server locally, `npm run start`


### To add new shutdowns

### To setup the project locally:
The project uses stack including Node, Bower, Express and MongoDB. Follow the steps to setup the project locally:
* Install the nodejs and git
* Install node dependencies using `npm install` which will install bower dependencies itself.
* To run the server locally, `npm run start`

### Structure
The project uses MVC architecture, views are under views directory, model (in separate repository, shutdowns-backend), controller. Development stack includes Node, Express and MongoDB.
https://internetshutdowns.in/about
The project is primarily an `express` webapp that serves two kinds of pages.
1. The home page containing the map from `public/index.html`
2. All Other pages like `/about`, `/resources` which are coded as `pug.js` templates in `/views` directory

### The Map
The interactive map section powered by:
* [mapbox-gl-js](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js) to fetch and render maps
* [ractive.js](https://github.com/ractivejs/ractive) for DOM manipulation with templates

`/public/js/build.js` - contains code for rendering maps and handling interactivity.

*A contributor helped with a build script with webpack/watchify but only committed `build.js`
without the configuration or the source file which led to further changes made
directly to `build.js`. Ideally changes should be made to map.js and compiled into build.js*

`/public/js/app.js` - The older version of the shutdown tracker which is still
embedded in [the initial blog post about the tracker](https://sflc.in/internet-shutdown-tracker-india-20132016)

`public/js/mapbox-gl-boundaries.js` - Adds boundaries to the map for Indian states
n
`public/js/turf-intrntshtdns.min.js` - Generated with [turf](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/glossary/turf/)

`public/js/updates.js` - Ractive template for the deprecated `/updates` page
generated by `views/updates.jade`

### Other parts of the app
* **Trends** - full screen gallery is powered by [baguetteBox.js](https://feimosi.github.io/baguetteBox.js/)
initialized in `public/js/build.js`
* **Sliding Quote Cards** - rendered using [jQuery Slick.js plugin](http://kenwheeler.github.io/slick/)
initialized in `public/js/build.dst-curriculmjs'


### Dependencies
All pacage dependencies can be installed via `npm install` and are listed in *package.json*.

## Contribute
Internet shutdowns frontend is open source and welcomes all types of contributions. The current task to be done should be added to the 'issues'. Make sure you read contributing guidelines to know more about hte contribution workflow and guidelines.

## License
The data available on the website including the Shutdown data is under Open Database license (ODbl). The project codebase is under AGPLv3 license. Detailed license can be found in [LICENSE](./LICENSE).



